# Relative-authorship-index
This repository introduces the Relative Authorship Index (RAI), a novel metric designed to address the limitations of traditional bibliometric indicators such as publication counts, citation numbers, and the h-index. By correcting for authorship inflation, this index provides a more accurate reflection of individual contributions in academic publications. We provided here three codes aimed to estimate RAIs given any distribution of papers retrieved from Web of Science, and to estimate all the related statistics. Namely, these codes are 'relative_authorship_index_analysis.py', 'plot_analysis.py', and 'extract_subfolder.py'. To thoroughly examine and evaluate any distribution of papers retrieved from the Web of Science (WoS) and recognized as belonging to an Italian university, it is sufficient to utilize the script relative_authorship_index_analysis.py. This script is designed to return an index distribution estimated from the provided papers data. The necessary information should be retrieved by selecting all the metadata suggested by Web of Science, such as publication year, DOI, and affiliation. Additionally, the script performs a comprehensive analysis by sorting all the papers based on various criteria, including region, university type, and, if applicable, private university type. This detailed analysis was crucial for achieving the specific aims of our study.

Furthermore, to execute this script, it is necessary to provide the API keys obtained by following the required steps to use the pybliometrics library. These API keys are essential for accessing the necessary data from WoS. Specifically, you should enter the API keys in the designated line of the script, as shown below:


config["Authentication"] = {
        "APIKey":   #APIKeys list
}

These should be provided as a single comma-separated string. Make sure you get at least one API key from http://dev.elsevier.com/myapikey.html (you can get up to 10 API keys, the more you have, the more DOIs per week you’re allowed to analyze). The library pybliometrics makes use of these APIKeys to access Scopus and retrieve the needed metadata (see more details by hitting the link https://pybliometrics.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html ). In this case, our analysis aims at detecting the average number of authors per reference for each paper provided as input. This number is used by our program to estimate the RAI. It returns several excel sheets, the one containing all the papers analyzed together with their own index is ‘authors_number_per_reference_all’. Furthermore, other sheets including the aforementioned data on papers affiliated with the three different regions considered in the analysis, and with private, public. nontelematic or telematic are returned.With regard to plot_analysis.py, this script carries out all the tests required to compare papers sorted by region, university type, and private type (if private). In detail, it performs a non-parametric Mann-Whitney test within the first public-private distribution, and then the non-telematic-telematic distribution. Also, a parametric Kruskal-Wallis test among regions is carried out to evaluate possible differences in terms of both average RAI and average number of authors per paper among them. 
